2026 Smoot Annual Review (#326)
LF-Decentralized-Trust/governance: tac/project-updates/2026/2026-annual_Smoot.md

[//]: # (SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0)

# Smoot – 2025 Annual Review

## Project Health

> Smoot demonstrated strong development momentum throughout 2025. The following milestones and outcomes were achieved during the year.

Reviewer: It would be good to give some evidence to make this report stronger. For instance, https://insights.linuxfoundation.org/project/smoot?timeRange=custom&start=2025-01-01&end=2025-12-31 gives an overview about development acticties in the repos.

Author: Will evaluate this link.

Reviewer 2: @weijia31415  did you take a look at the insights here?

---

## Phase 1: Migration Completed

> The Wanchain implementation was successfully migrated to the LFDT repository.  

Reviewer: Could you please add a link to the repository where we can find the wanchain implementation.

Author: This is the link to the repository.  Will add it to the report: https://github.com/LFDT-Smoot/bridge

The codebase was redesigned to be vendor-agnostic, improving flexibility and long-term sustainability.  
A modular architecture was introduced, allowing contributors to add and extend components independently.  

> The project was established as a fully open-source codebase, intentionally designed to support and encourage community contributions.

Reviewer: It seems that https://github.com/LFDT-Smoot/bridge is "main" repository of smoot. Do you expect this repo as your landing repo? I strongly believe that the main readme could be improved.

Please make sure that you comply with the LFDT common repo structure https://lf-decentralized-trust.github.io/governance/governing-documents/repository-structure/

Author: Yes, will add readme and other instructional documents.

Harmonia was collaboratively initiated by contributors from R3 and Adhara.

In addition, research is currently underway to integrate Cacti connectors, further strengthening cross-network interoperability.

---

## Phase 3: Cross-Chain Application Development

An EIP-3643 cross-chain use case implementation has been completed.  
Enterprise-grade solutions are being developed on top of the Smoot framework.  
End-to-end use cases—including GUI components—have been delivered, and an EIP-3643 demonstration is ready.  
Developers can easily leverage the Smoot source code to build and extend cross-chain applications.  
Infrastructure providers can now enable third-party application development using Smoot-based components.

---

## Maintainer Diversity

The Smoot project currently has three active maintainers. Organizational diversity among maintainers remains an area for improvement:

- Wanchain: 2 maintainers, supported by a broader group of contributing developers  

> - Adhara: 1 maintainer  

Reviewer: We are missing a maintainers file.

Author: Will add a maintainers file.

> The Smoot project actively welcomes additional third-party organizations to participate as maintainers.

Reviewer: Could you please elaborate on how you do this? Where can users find information about how to become a maintainer?

Are there any regular community meetings scheduled? The documentation in the repository is not very helpful.

Author: In the Smoot posts, community meetups, and LFDT summits, we advocated for collaborations.  Will discuss in the next community meeting and see if we can make it more visible.

Author: https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/blog/strengthening-blockchain-interoperability-for-enterprises-harmonia-lab-merges-into-lfdt-smoot

Meetup: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hs2OLQNq1no

---

## Project Adoption

> Smoot is a relatively new project, and production-level adoption is still limited. Outreach and ecosystem engagement remain key focus areas.

Reviewer: > Outreach and ecosystem engagement remain key focus areas.

Can you please elaborate on this.

Author: Will update the documents.  Basically we would like to find new use cases and partners who are willing to leverage the Smoot framework to build crosschain applications.

---

## Goals

### Performance Against Prior Goals

Smoot successfully achieved the goals set for 2025. In addition to the technical milestones described above, the following dissemination and community engagement activities were completed:

> - Publication of a blog post introducing the Smoot project  

Reviewer: Please provide a reference.

Author: Will add the link to the reference.

> - Two community meetup presentations  

Reviewer: Please provide a reference.

Author: Provide links to these meetups

- Blog post announcing the merger of Smoot and Harmonia  
- Joint interoperability presentation with the Cacti project  
- Joint presentation at the LFDT Summit  

---

### Goals for the Coming Year

- Continue enhancement of the core infrastructure  
- Develop additional use cases  
- Drive adoption by third parties and expand interoperability integrations  
- Strengthen security across the interoperability framework  

## Help Needed

- Continued collaboration with LFDT staff to identify new contributors and potential maintainers from additional organizations

## Project Lifecycle Status Recommendation

> This report recommends continuing the project’s “active development” status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This report recommends continuing the project’s “incubation” status.
```

Author: Will update the document.
